README.md, before:

[![YourActionName Actions Status](https://github.com/freswa/dovecot-xaps-daemon/workflows/Test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/freswa/dovecot-xaps-daemon/actions)

iOS Push Email for Dovecot
==========================

What is this?
-------------

This project, together with the [dovecot-xaps-plugin](https://github.com/freswa/dovecot-xaps-plugin) project, will enable push email for iOS devices that talk to your Dovecot 2.0.x IMAP server. This is specially useful for people who are migrating away from running email services on OS X Server and want to keep the Push Email ability.

> Please note that it is not possible to use this project without legally owning a copy of OS X Server. You can purchase OS X Server on the [Mac App Store](https://itunes.apple.com/ca/app/os-x-server/id714547929?mt=12) or download it for free if you are a registered Mac or iOS developer.

What is the advantage of push?
------------------------------

Without Push, your iPhone will Fetch email periodically. This means that mail is delayed and that your device will use precious power to connect to a remote IMAP server.

Using native Push messages means that your phone will receive new email notifications over a highly optimized connection to iCloud that it already has for other purposes.

High Level Overview
-------------------

There are two parts to enabling iOS Push Email. You will need both parts for this to work.

First you need to install the Dovecot plugins from the [dovecot-xaps-plugin](https://github.com/freswa/dovecot-xaps-plugin) project. How do to that is documented in the README file in that project. The Dovecot plugin adds support for the `XAPPLEPUSHSERVICE` IMAP extension that will let iOS devices register themselves to receive native push notifications for new email arrival.

(Apple did not document this feature, but it did publish the source code for all their Dovecot patches on the [Apple Open Source project site](http://www.opensource.apple.com/source/dovecot/dovecot-293/), which include this feature. Although I was not able to follow a specification, I was able to read their open source project and do a clean implementation with all original code.)

Second, you need to install a daemon process (contained in this project) that will be responsible for receiving new email notifications from the Dovecot Local Delivery Agent and transforming those into native Apple Push Notifications.

Installation
============

Prerequisites
-------------

You are going to need the following things to get this going:

* Some patience and willingness to experiment - Although I run this project in production, it is still a very early version and it may contain bugs.
* Apple ID you've purchased macOS Server with
* Dovecot > 2.2.19 (which introduced the push-notification plugin) 

Compiling and Installing the Daemon
-----------------------------------

The daemon is written in Go. The easiest way to build it is with go itself.

```
git clone https://github.com/freswa/dovecot-xaps-daemon.git
cd dovecot-xaps-daemon
go build ./cmd/xapsd
```

Running the Daemon
------------------

We assume that the daemon is installed in `/usr/bin/xapsd`.
The config file from `configs/xapsd/xapsd.yaml` has to go in `/etc/xapsd`.
Use the systemd file from `configs/systemd/xapsd.service` to run the daemon.
Change config to fit your needs.
Especially fill in the details of the Apple ID. 
The parameter `appleId` must be set to the login email address of the account.
Please do _NOT_ fill in your password into `appleIdHashedPassword`, but instead run
`xapsd -pass`. Then copy the printed hash to the config file.


Setting up Devices
------------------

Your iOS devices will discover that the server supports Push automatically the first time they connect. To force them to reconnect you can reboot the iOS device or turn Airport Mode on and off with a little delay in between.

If you go to your Email settings, you should see that the account has switched to Push.

Privacy
-------

Each time a message is received, dovecot-xaps-daemon sends Apple a TLS-secured HTTP/2 request, which Apple uses to send a notification over a persistent connection maintained to between the user's device and Apple's push notification servers.

The request contains the following information: a device token (used by Apple to identify which device should be sent a push notification), an account ID (used by the user's device to identify which account it should poll for new messages), and a certificate topic. The certificate topic identifies the server to Apple and is hardcoded in the certificate issued by Apple and setup in the configuration for dovecot-xaps-daemon.

By virtue of having made the request, Apple also learns the IP address of the server sending the push notification, and the time at which the push notification is sent by the server to Apple.

While no information typically thought of as private is directly exposed to Apple, some difficult to avoid leaks still occur. For example, Apple could correlate that two or more users frequently receive a push notification at almost the exact same time. From this, Apple could potentially infer that these users are receiving the same message. For most users this may not be a significant new loss of privacy.

Commit message:

All config parameter can be updated using command line

README.md, after:

[![YourActionName Actions Status](https://github.com/freswa/dovecot-xaps-daemon/workflows/Test/badge.svg)](https://github.com/freswa/dovecot-xaps-daemon/actions)

iOS Push Email for Dovecot
==========================

What is this?
-------------

This project, together with the [dovecot-xaps-plugin](https://github.com/freswa/dovecot-xaps-plugin) project, will enable push email for iOS devices that talk to your Dovecot 2.0.x IMAP server. This is specially useful for people who are migrating away from running email services on OS X Server and want to keep the Push Email ability.

> Please note that it is not possible to use this project without legally owning a copy of OS X Server. You can purchase OS X Server on the [Mac App Store](https://itunes.apple.com/ca/app/os-x-server/id714547929?mt=12) or download it for free if you are a registered Mac or iOS developer.

What is the advantage of push?
------------------------------

Without Push, your iPhone will Fetch email periodically. This means that mail is delayed and that your device will use precious power to connect to a remote IMAP server.

Using native Push messages means that your phone will receive new email notifications over a highly optimized connection to iCloud that it already has for other purposes.

High Level Overview
-------------------

There are two parts to enabling iOS Push Email. You will need both parts for this to work.

First you need to install the Dovecot plugins from the [dovecot-xaps-plugin](https://github.com/freswa/dovecot-xaps-plugin) project. How do to that is documented in the README file in that project. The Dovecot plugin adds support for the `XAPPLEPUSHSERVICE` IMAP extension that will let iOS devices register themselves to receive native push notifications for new email arrival.

(Apple did not document this feature, but it did publish the source code for all their Dovecot patches on the [Apple Open Source project site](http://www.opensource.apple.com/source/dovecot/dovecot-293/), which include this feature. Although I was not able to follow a specification, I was able to read their open source project and do a clean implementation with all original code.)

Second, you need to install a daemon process (contained in this project) that will be responsible for receiving new email notifications from the Dovecot Local Delivery Agent and transforming those into native Apple Push Notifications.

Installation
============

Prerequisites
-------------

You are going to need the following things to get this going:

* Some patience and willingness to experiment - Although I run this project in production, it is still a very early version and it may contain bugs.
* Apple ID you've purchased macOS Server with
* Dovecot > 2.2.19 (which introduced the push-notification plugin) 

Compiling and Installing the Daemon
-----------------------------------

The daemon is written in Go. The easiest way to build it is with go itself.

```
git clone https://github.com/freswa/dovecot-xaps-daemon.git
cd dovecot-xaps-daemon
go build ./cmd/xapsd
```

Running the Daemon
------------------

We assume that the daemon is installed in `/usr/bin/xapsd`.
The config file from `configs/xapsd/xapsd.yaml` has to go in `/etc/xapsd`.
Use the systemd file from `configs/systemd/xapsd.service` to run the daemon.
Change config to fit your needs.
Especially fill in the details of the Apple ID. 
The parameter `appleId` must be set to the login email address of the account.
Please do _NOT_ fill in your password into `appleIdHashedPassword`, but instead run
`openssl dgst -sha256 -binary | xxd -p -c 32`, then type your password and directly after that, press `Ctrl+D Ctrl+D`. Do not press `enter` during this process. Otherwise the generated Hash will not work. Then copy the printed hash to the config file.

Alternatively, the configuration file can also be updated via the command line, e.g.
```
xapsd -setAppleID=your@apple.com -setApplePassword=yourAppleIDPassword
```
The hash value for the AppleID password will be generated automatically and saved in the config file.
All possible command line options:
```
xapsd -configPath=/etc/xapsd -configName=xapsd \
    -setDatabaseFile=/var/lib/xapsd/database.json -setSocketPath=/var/run/dovecot/xapsd.sock \
    -setLogLevel=warn -setCheckInterval=20 -setDelay=30 \
    -setAppleID=your@appleid.com -setApplePassword=yourAppleIDPassword
```


Setting up Devices
------------------

Your iOS devices will discover that the server supports Push automatically the first time they connect. To force them to reconnect you can reboot the iOS device or turn Airport Mode on and off with a little delay in between.

If you go to your Email settings, you should see that the account has switched to Push.

Privacy
-------

Each time a message is received, dovecot-xaps-daemon sends Apple a TLS-secured HTTP/2 request, which Apple uses to send a notification over a persistent connection maintained to between the user's device and Apple's push notification servers.

The request contains the following information: a device token (used by Apple to identify which device should be sent a push notification), an account ID (used by the user's device to identify which account it should poll for new messages), and a certificate topic. The certificate topic identifies the server to Apple and is hardcoded in the certificate issued by Apple and setup in the configuration for dovecot-xaps-daemon.

By virtue of having made the request, Apple also learns the IP address of the server sending the push notification, and the time at which the push notification is sent by the server to Apple.

While no information typically thought of as private is directly exposed to Apple, some difficult to avoid leaks still occur. For example, Apple could correlate that two or more users frequently receive a push notification at almost the exact same time. From this, Apple could potentially infer that these users are receiving the same message. For most users this may not be a significant new loss of privacy.
